 Hello, guys! Welcome to my lecture. In this lecture today, I'm going to talk to you about the basics of genetics for beginners. 

Let me first begin by the definition of genetics. Genetics is a branch of biology that is concerned with the study of genes, genetic variation, and heredity in organisms. So, what is in it? It is basically, as the name suggests, the study of genes, and the genetic variation and heredity in organisms or individuals. 

Okay, so this is the definition of genetics. Now, let me introduce you to another term which is called 'trait'. So, what is a trait? A trait is a physical characteristic or attribute. This trait can be the height of the person, color of the eye, color of the skin, or color of the hair, etc. 

If you have a look at this picture here, the picture of a beautiful girl, she has black hair and brown skin. These are her traits. And, she's short. That's also her trait. 

Okay, so what is a trait? A trait is nothing but a simple physical characteristic or feature of an organism or an individual. That is a trait. So, for this girl here, black hair, brown skin, and short height, all these are some of the examples of traits. 

Hereditary or genetic information is found in the DNA. I'll discuss the definition of DNA later. 

So now, I want you to have a look at this picture here. This picture here shows the schematic representation of a cell. 

What is a cell? A cell is the smallest structure and functional unit of an organism. So, in the center of the cell, we have something called the nucleus and in the... Nucleus chromosome is present. Okay, so, chromosome is present in the nucleus of the cell. So now, I'm gonna talk to you about what is a chromosome and what is DNA. 

So, the DNA is the double helical structure like shown here in the picture, which is very, very long. So this DNA is quite super coiled around some proteins and it's very, very, very condensed. When it's coiled and supercoiled around some proteins and condensed, it comes in the form of a chromosome. 

Okay, so what is the chromosome? Chromosome is a DNA which has wrapped around some specific proteins, coiled and super coiled, and condensed to become the chromosome. 

Okay, so why is there a need for the DNA to become condensed? Because DNA is long and double helical, a long structure like this, and it cannot fit in this small nucleus. Nucleus is very, very small. When the DNA is long like this, it cannot fit in this nucleus. Therefore, it has to wrap around some specific proteins and become condensed, super coiled structure and condensed, okay. 

And then only in the form of a chromosome, then only can it fit in the nucleus. Get it? The purpose of the chromosome is because the DNA cannot fit as such. Therefore, it has to coil and super coil around some specific proteins to form a condensed structure, the chromosome, like here so that it can fit in the nucleus. 

So, this is the definition of chromosome and the DNA. Okay. So now, now you know about the DNA and chromosome. So, what is a gene? So, the gene is shown by the box here. A gene is a segment of the DNA which codes for specific proteins. Which... In turn, expressed some specific traits that is called the Zeen. Not all parts of the DNA is coding, you know. Some parts of the DNA is coding and making function, making proteins and expressing with some specific trace while the remaining part of the DNA is non-coding. 

So like I said, the box on the DNA strand above is a special section. It's a special section because it calls for some protein Whittington, which expresses a specific trait. Okay. That is a DNA; that is a zine. So, genes code for a specific protein that port for specific traits. 

We, human beings, have two genes for every trips. Two genes for every trip or all things come in pairs. Why is this so? Because we human beings have 23 pairs of chromosomes. So one from the father, one from the male gamete, and the other from the mother or the female gamete. 

So, basically, we have in each pair, we have homologous chromosomes. So, what are these homologous chromosomes? Homologous chromosomes are the chromosomes which are similar in size and the structure. They carry similar genes. Similar genes we scored four similar proteins which, in time, express similar traits. 

Okay, so these are homologous genes. So, for example, in this chromosome here, let's say that this is the gene that codes for the protein which expresses height. 

This also is the gene that codes for the protein with expressing height in this chromosome of, this dean of this chromosome and this thing of this chromosome. Both of these actually code for the specific trait, height. So, therefore, this thing is called an allele and this one is also canon called an allele, in a pair. 

Okay, so basically, what is... An ally, an allele, is one gene in a pair in a homologous chromosome. So, one gene in a pair, that is called a lead which we scored for this specific trait. For example, here, I have said that this one and this one, both of these, they code for the protein which in turn expresses a specific trait. Let's say that is height. So, therefore, this is called an allele. So, what is an allele? An allele is one gene in a pair; so that is called emply.

Okay, so I repeat, this is a very, very important concept. So, what is an allele? We have a homologous chromosome like I have shown here. This, this, this, and this thing, both of these, they code for the proteins which in turn express a similar trade. Let's say that they are responsible for the height. 

So, therefore, this one is called an allele, or also this one is called an allele. One thing in a pair, that is called an allele. So, these two chromosomes are homologous chromosomes. 

Okay, so what is an allele? An allele is one gene in a pair. One in, in a pair. So good, so now I want you to think like this. Okay, in the nucleus, we have the chromosomes. So, what is a chromosome? A chromosome is DNA plus some specific proteins, super comets, right?

So, and then comes the DNA. Okay, because DNA, and in the DNA, this some segment of the DNA, or some specific segment or the part or the section of the DNA is the scene. And the scene, actually, is one gene in a pair that is called an allele. So, I want you to think like, to think, the concept of chromosome, DNA, gene, and allele. "Cost" in the boxes shown here, like this, this thing, things like that. The big box is a chromosome, and smaller than that one is DNA. Is smaller than that one is a gene, and endi - the smallest one is an allele. Okay, this thing like this. So, more definition: what is a locus? I explained. I explained it: explain what is a zine. A zine is a specific segment off a DNA. So and now, I will explain what is a locus. 

A locus or Lucas is a location of a zine on a chromosome. Let's say that this is a chromosome. Okay, this is a chromosome. These, these two represents homologous chromosomes. So the locus, or a location of this gene for height, this is called a locust. Okay, so, what is the locust? Locust for this red gene. This location here, on this chromosome, that is the locust. And the location for this green gene, which is the gene for seed shape. So, what is the locus? The locus is the location. A location here, on this chromosome, that is the locus. 

So, a locus is a specific location on a chromosome for a gene that expresses, of course, some proteins and expresses some traits. Okay, so that is the locus. Locust is the name suggesting a location of the gene on a chromosome. 

So, I will now discuss some more terminologies here. Let's say about: capital T represents dominant and zine for the trait "tall" and small T represents recessive gene for the trait "short". Okay, so what is a heterozygous organism? An individual or organism is said to be heterozygous for a given trait if one of the alleles is dominant while the other is recessive. Okay, so, for example, capital T represents a dominant allele and small T represents a recessive. "Allele. If an organism has a capital T and small T together, that kind of organism is called a heterozygous organism. Okay, so look at this picture here. This is your homologous chromosome pair. So if this is the capital T, this is an allele. This one is also an allele. But, if this one is capital T, representing for the tall, and if this one is small T for the short and this and if the organism has these babies... this early, this this one capital T and small T. So this actually is called heterozygous organism or individual. Isn't is for a given trait for the height, they have tall and short mixed together. Okay, so because capital T is the dominant allele, so because the capital T is the dominant allele, it will mask the expression of the protein coded by this allele. Okay, so if this one is the capital T, if this this one is their small T so this capital T will marks the expression of the protein by small T. Hence, the organism will be tall. So the result of this, the phenotype of this heterozygous organism, will be tall because why it will be tall is because we have here one allele as the dominant, capital T, and this capital T, this dominant allele, will mask the expression or the recessive allele. Okay, the protein coded by the recessive allele which in turn actually expressed peak height. Okay, table, so we will get the tall organism here, white all organism, capital T will must be expression of the small T. Okay, so now another important concept is homozygous. So one is homozygous organism. If an individual, or organisms, if in an individual, or organisms for the given traces, if both alleles are dominant." That is called homozygous dominant. For example, if in this case, in this example, if this one is also capital T. If this is only capital T, the dominant gene for the tallness, and this one is also capital T, this is capital T and this one is also capital T, then we will have the organism that will have both capital T, okay? In its genetic makeup. 

So then, this kind of organism is called homozygous dominant because capital T represents the dominant trait which is tall. So we will have the tall organism as the phenotype. Okay, so he's a tall organism. The phenotype is the physical, obedience, okay, physical appearance. So we'll have the taller mechanisms. 

So another homozygous, another type of homozygous organism, is called homozygous recessive. So that is if an organism or individual for the given traits, if both the alleles are recessive, and that is called homozygous recessive. For example, if this is a small t, and this one is a small t, now in this case, this allele will express the trait: the short. Because small T is the recessive gene, and that coasts for the protein which will code for the short plant. Okay, which will result in a short plant. 

So then we will have the short plant. So if both the alleles are also recessive then like here, small T and small T, we will get the short plant. The result of this will be that the phenotype of the plant will be short. In homozygous recessive, the phenotype of the plant will be short. Why? Because both of the alleles are recessive and these alleles are expressing the trait for shortness. Okay, so we'll have a short plant. Plan: Here, in the heterozygous intersex organism we call the "tall plan" because we had one dominant allele. And one dominant allele is enough to express the trait. Is it straight? So, we will get the tall plant because it will mask the expression of the recessive allele. Here, in both the cases we have both dominant tall, tall dominant alleles so we will get the tall plant. And here, in this case, or homozygous recessive case, we have both recessive alleles so the end result will be we will get be a short plant. In the phenotype of the plant will be short because both of these are recessive genes expressing for the short trait. Okay, so this is a definition. And now, some more definitions.  

Genotype: Like I said earlier, genetic makeup of an organism is called genotype. It actually tells what types of genes are found in the organism. For example, in a heterozygous organism we have one dominant allele and one recessive allele. Okay, so that is the genetic makeup of a heterozygous organism. 

In a homozygous organism, there can be two types of homozygous, or there will be two types. One is homozygous dominant. In homozygous dominant organism, we have one dominant allele and one dominant allele. Okay, so we'll have 'Porterman' analytically. And in homozygous recessive organisms, we will have both releasing alleles genetically.

Okay, so basically these different types of organisms, the genotype is telling us what are the different types of genes found in the organisms. The genetic makeup of the organism. 

So what, is the phenotype? Like I said earlier, phenotype is the physical appearance of an organism or an individual. In heterozygous organisms, capital 'T' and small 't' because here we have the... Dominant allele, so it will mask the expression of recessive allele. So, we will have the tall plant. Okay, you will have tall plants. So, this is the phenotype, tall plant, in case of homozygous dominant where both alleles are dominant, capital T and small T. Here also, we will get tall plant and this tall plant is the phenotype of this homozygous dominant organism, our dominant plant. We can say "even plant" because I'm giving you the example of a plant. 

In case of homozygous recessive, in case of homozygous recessive plant, we have both the recessive alleles, small T, small T, representing for short. So, the phenotype of the plant will be the short, will be short. 

So, phenotype is a physical appearance of an organism or an individual. I hope this video was helpful. I will come up with more videos on genetics. Thank you very much.